AI Assistant docs updates for 8.16 (#4326)
elastic/observability-docs: docs/en/observability/observability-ai-assistant.asciidoc

NOTE: Your AI provider may collect telemetry when using the AI Assistant. Contact your AI provider for information on how data is collected.

Add data to the knowledge base with one or more of the following methods:

* <<obs-ai-kb-ui>> available at <<obs-ai-settings>> page.
* <<obs-ai-search-connectors>>

> It's also possible to add information to the knowledge base by asking the AI Assistant to remember something while chatting (for example, "remember this for next time"). The assistant will create a summary of the information and add it to the knowledge base.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also add information to the knowledge base by asking the AI Assistant to remember something while chatting (for example, "remember this for next time"). The assistant will create a summary of the information and add it to the knowledge base.
```
Making content more user-centric.

NOTE: Your AI provider may collect telemetry when using the AI Assistant. Contact your AI provider for information on how data is collected.

> External data can be added to the knowledge base through the following methods:

Reviewer 2: This is an example of passive voice. Here's an article explaining what that is: https://www.grammarly.com/blog/sentences/active-vs-passive-voice/. Try to use active voice instead of passive whenever possible.

I recommend updating this to something like:

```suggestion
Add external data to the knowledge base with one or more of the following methods:
```

Author: I missed this one. I will review it soon :)

Search connectors are only needed when importing external data into the Knowledge base of the AI Assistant, while the stack connector to the LLM is required for the AI Assistant to work.
====

{enterprise-search-ref}/connectors.html[Connectors] allow you to index content from external sources thereby making it available for the AI Assistant. This can greatly improve the relevance of the AI Assistant’s responses. Data can be integrated from sources such as GitHub, Confluence, Google Drive, Jira, AWS S3, Microsoft Teams, Slack, and more.

These connectors are managed under *Search* -> *Content* -> *Connectors* in {kib}, they are outside of the {observability} Solution, and they require an {enterprise-search-ref}/server.html[Enterprise Search] server connected to the Elastic Stack.

By default, the AI Assistant queries all search connector indices. To override this behavior and customize which indices are queried, adjust the *Search connector index pattern* setting on the <<obs-ai-settings>> page. This allows precise control over which data sources are included in AI Assistant knowledge base.

> To create a connector and make its content available to the AI Assistant knowledge base, do the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To create a connector and make its content available to the AI Assistant knowledge base, follow these steps:
```

. In {kib} UI, go to *Search* -> *Content* -> *Connectors* and follow the instructions to create a new connector.
+
[NOTE]
====
If your {kib} Space doesn't include the `Search` solution you will have to create the connector from a different space or change your space *Solution view* setting to `Classic`.
====
+

> For example, if you create a {enterprise-search-ref}/connectors-github.html[GitHub native connector] you will have to set a `name`, attach it to a new or existing `index`, add your `personal access token` and include the `list of repositories` to synchronize.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, if you create a {enterprise-search-ref}/connectors-github.html[GitHub native connector] you have to set a `name`, attach it to a new or existing `index`, add your `personal access token` and include the `list of repositories` to synchronize.
```

+

> Learn more about configuring connectors on (TBD - links)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Learn more about configuring connectors on (TBD - links)
```
Are you going to add a reference here?

+

> . Create a pipeline and process the data with ELSER

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Create a pipeline and process the data with ELSER.
```
Keep punctuation consistent. Either you use it, or you don't.

+

> In order to create the embeddings needed by the AI Assistant (weights and tokens into a sparse vector field) we will have to create a *ML Inference Pipeline*:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To create the embeddings needed by the AI Assistant (weights and tokens into a sparse vector field), you have to create an *ML Inference Pipeline*:
```
Avoid "we" where possible.

+
.. Open the previously created connector and select the *Pipelines* tab.
.. Select *Copy and customize* button at the `Unlock your custom pipelines` box.
.. Select *Add Inference Pipeline* button at the `Machine Learning Inference Pipelines` box.

> .. Select ELSER ML model to add the necessary embeddings to the data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. Select ELSER ML model to add the necessary embeddings to the data.
```
If ELSER ML appears on the UI, make it bold. Otherwise, add the article "the".

.. Select the fields that need to be evaluated as part of the inference pipeline.
.. Test and save the inference pipeline and the overall pipeline.

> . Sync the data

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Sync the data.
```

+
Once the pipeline is set up, perform a *Full Content Sync* in the connector. The inference pipeline will process the data as follows:
+
* As data comes in, ELSER is applied to the data, and embeddings (weights and tokens into a sparse vector field) are added to capture semantic meaning and context of the data.

> * When you look at the documents that were ingested, you will see how the weights and token are added to the `predicted_value` field in the documents.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* When you look at the documents that are ingested, you can see how the weights and token are added to the `predicted_value` field in the documents.
```

> . Check if AI Assistant can use the index (optional)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Check if AI Assistant can use the index (optional).
```

+
Ask something to the AI Assistant related with the indexed data.

[discrete]
[[obs-ai-interact]]
== Interact with the AI Assistant

Chat with the AI Assistant or interact with contextual insights located throughout {observability}.

> See the following sections for more on interacting with the AI Assistant.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Check the following sections for more on interacting with the AI Assistant.
```

----
{
  "id": "a_unique_human_readable_id",
  "text": "Contents of item"
}
----

> (*TBD* Add screenshot of how the UI looks?)

Reviewer 2: You want to be very intentional about adding screenshots—updating them is very time-consuming. Our products change frequently, meaning screenshots go out of date quickly. We don't have a good rule in our style guide about this yet (I brought this up in #style-guide writing).

Author: Completely agreed. As talked we will try to not rely on screenshots and for example we will add a small image of the AI Assistant icon instead of using a screenshot for that purpose.

----
{
  "id": "a_unique_human_readable_id",
  "text": "Contents of item"
}
----

[discrete]
[[obs-ai-search-connectors]]
=== Use search connectors

[TIP]
====
{enterprise-search-ref}/connectors.html[Search connectors] differ from the {kibana-ref}/action-types.html[Stack management -> Connectors] configured during the <<obs-ai-set-up, AI Assistant setup>>.
Search connectors are only needed when importing external data into the Knowledge base of the AI Assistant, while the stack connector to the LLM is required for the AI Assistant to work.
====

{enterprise-search-ref}/connectors.html[Connectors] allow you to index content from external sources thereby making it available for the AI Assistant. This can greatly improve the relevance of the AI Assistant’s responses. Data can be integrated from sources such as GitHub, Confluence, Google Drive, Jira, AWS S3, Microsoft Teams, Slack, and more.

These connectors are managed under *Search* -> *Content* -> *Connectors* in {kib}, they are outside of the {observability} Solution, and they require an {enterprise-search-ref}/server.html[Enterprise Search] server connected to the Elastic Stack.

> By default, the AI Assistant queries all search connector indices. To customize which indices are queried, adjust the *Search connector index pattern* setting on the <<obs-ai-settings>> page. This allows precise control over which data sources are included in AI Assistant knowledge base.

Reviewer 3: I think we should. It is not obvious that it would override.

+
.. Open the previously created connector and select the *Pipelines* tab.
.. Select *Copy and customize* button at the `Unlock your custom pipelines` box.
.. Select *Add Inference Pipeline* button at the `Machine Learning Inference Pipelines` box.
.. Select ELSER ML model to add the necessary embeddings to the data.
.. Select the fields that need to be evaluated as part of the inference pipeline.
.. Test and save the inference pipeline and the overall pipeline.
. Sync the data
+
Once the pipeline is set up, perform a *Full Content Sync* in the connector. The inference pipeline will process the data as follows:
+
* As data comes in, ELSER is applied to the data, and embeddings (weights and tokens into a sparse vector field) are added to capture semantic meaning and context of the data.
* When you look at the documents that were ingested, you will see how the weights and token are added to the `predicted_value` field in the documents.
. Check if AI Assistant can use the index (optional)
+
Ask something to the AI Assistant related with the indexed data.

[discrete]
[[obs-ai-reindex-api]]
=== Use the {es} Reindex API

> // EEDUGON note: is this section still worthy "as it is" when we have the option of search connectors?

Reviewer 4: as said elsewhere, fine with removing!

[role="screenshot"]
image::images/obs-ai-logs.gif[Observability AI assistant example, 75%]

Continue a conversation from a contextual prompt by clicking *Start chat* to open the AI Assistant chat.

[discrete]
[[obs-ai-connector]]
=== Add the AI Assistant connector to alerting workflows

Use the {kibana-ref}/obs-ai-assistant-action-type.html[Observability AI Assistant connector] to add AI-generated insights and custom actions to your alerting workflows as follows:

> To do this:

Reviewer 3: I'd suggest to keep one of "...as follows:" and "To do this:"

To learn more about alerting, actions, and connectors, refer to <<create-alerts>>.

[discrete]
[[obs-ai-settings]]
== AI Assistant Settings

> Access the AI Assistant Settings page:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can access the AI Assistant Settings page:
```

* From *{stack-manage-app}* -> *Kibana* -> *AI Assistants* -> *Elastic AI Assistant for Observability*.

> * From the *More ations* menu inside the AI Assistant window.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* From the *More actions* menu inside the AI Assistant window.
```

The AI Assistant Settings page contains the following tabs:

> * *Settings*: configure the main AI Assistant settings, which are explained directly within the interface.
> * *Knowledge base*: <<obs-ai-kb-ui,manage knowledge base entries>>. 
> * *Search Connectors*: provides a link to {kib} *Search* -> *Content* -> *Connectors* UI for connectors configuration.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* *Settings*: Configures the main AI Assistant settings, which are explained directly within the interface.
* *Knowledge base*: Manages <<obs-ai-kb-ui,knowledge base entries>>. 
* *Search Connectors*: Provides a link to {kib} *Search* -> *Content* -> *Connectors* UI for connectors configuration.
```
Capitalize the first word after the colon.
Keep the tense consistent, either infinite or 3rd person singular.

To learn more about alerting, actions, and connectors, refer to <<create-alerts>>.

[discrete]
[[obs-ai-settings]]
== AI Assistant Settings

> You can access the AI Assistant Settings page:

Reviewer 2: Perhaps just personal preference, but in documentation, the phrase "you can" is almost always unnecessary.

_You can_ be more direct by saying:

`Access the AI Assistant Settings page:`

* From *{stack-manage-app}* -> *AI Assistants* -> *Elastic AI Assistant for Observability* `Manage Settings` button.
* From the `More ations` menu inside the AI Assistant window.
+
[role="screenshot"]
image::images/obs-ai-assistant-settings-access.png[AI Assistant Settings]

The AI Assistant Settings page contains the following tabs:

* *Settings*: This section allows you to configure the main AI Assistant settings, which are explained directly within the interface.
* *Knowledge base*: This section allows you to <<obs-ai-kb-ui,manage knowledge base entries>>. 

> * *Search Connectors*: *TBD*

Reviewer 2: "This section" is implied. I would tighten this up by simplifying your wording:

```
* *Settings*: Configure the main AI Assistant settings, which are explained directly within the interface.
* *Knowledge base*: <<obs-ai-kb-ui,Manage knowledge base entries>>. 
* *Search Connectors*: *TBD*
```

Most LLMs have a set number of tokens they can manage in single a conversation.
When you reach the token limit, the LLM will throw an error, and Elastic will display a "Token limit reached" error in Kibana.
The exact number of tokens that the LLM can support depends on the LLM provider and model you're using.

> If you are using an OpenAI connector, monitor token utilization in **OpenAI Token Usage** dashboard.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you use an OpenAI connector, monitor token utilization in **OpenAI Token Usage** dashboard.
```
